[Style guide] Grammar and Formatting (#9263)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/style-guide/grammar-and-formatting/parts-of-speech/abbreviations.md

+ Units of measure such as MB or GB
+ URL
+ USB

## Abbreviations not to use 

Prefer English terms over Latin abbreviations. Do not use i.e. or e.g. Instead, use **that is** or **for example**, respectively.

One exception: avoid both *etc.* and *and so on* wherever possible, but if you really need to use one, use *etc.* Always include the period, even if a comma follows immediately after.

Do not use internet slang abbreviations such as tl;dr, IMO, FYI, or others.

Use the most common form of a word. If the full spelled-out word is common and easily understandable, use that rather than abbreviating. For example, write approximately instead of approx. and versus instead of vs.

### Periods with abbreviations

Follow these guidelines:

+ Do not use periods with acronyms or initialisms.
+ Put a period at the end of a shortened word, except for date and time abbreviations.
+ If you write or say an abbreviation as a word (for example, app or sync), do not put a period after it.
+ Do not use a period with an abbreviation for the name of a country, US state, or the District of Columbia (DC).

## i.e. vs e.g.
While similar, these two Latin abbreviations carry very different meanings. 

> + **i.e.** stands for **id est**. Quite literally, it means "that is" (that = id, est = is). It can be replaced with "that is" or "in other words".

Reviewer: can you indent the examples beneath the i.e./e.g. definitions?

+ Units of measure such as MB or GB
+ URL
+ USB

## Abbreviations not to use 

Prefer English terms over Latin abbreviations. Do not use i.e. or e.g. Instead, use **that is** or **for example**, respectively.

One exception: avoid both *etc.* and *and so on* wherever possible, but if you really need to use one, use *etc.* Always include the period, even if a comma follows immediately after.

Do not use internet slang abbreviations such as tl;dr, IMO, FYI, or others.

Use the most common form of a word. If the full spelled-out word is common and easily understandable, use that rather than abbreviating. For example, write approximately instead of approx. and versus instead of vs.

### Periods with abbreviations

Follow these guidelines:

+ Do not use periods with acronyms or initialisms.
+ Put a period at the end of a shortened word, except for date and time abbreviations.
+ If you write or say an abbreviation as a word (for example, app or sync), do not put a period after it.
+ Do not use a period with an abbreviation for the name of a country, US state, or the District of Columbia (DC).

## i.e. vs e.g.
While similar, these two Latin abbreviations carry very different meanings. 

> + **i.e.** stands for **id est**.
>     Quite literally, it means "that is" (that = id, est = is). It can be replaced with "that is" or "in other words".
>     + The median compression ratio achieved by Railgun was 0.65% (**i.e.**, the page was reduced to 0.65% of its size).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**i.e.** stands for **id est**. Quite literally, it means "that is" (that = id, est = is). It can be replaced with "that is" or "in other words".
    + The median compression ratio achieved by Railgun was 0.65% (**i.e.**, the page was reduced to 0.65% of its size).
```

> + **e.g.** stands for **exempli gratia**.
>     Use this when introducing examples for something you have just mentioned. It can be replaced with "for example", or "like".
>     + Cloudflare products (**e.g.**, Zero Trust, Magic Transit, etc.) offer network security and reliability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ **e.g.** stands for **exempli gratia**. Use this when introducing examples for something you have just mentioned. It can be replaced with "for example", or "like".
+ Cloudflare products (**e.g.**, Zero Trust, Magic Transit, etc.) offer network security and reliability.
```

---
pcx_content_type: Concept
title: Abbreviations
---

## Abbreviations

> Abbreviations include acronyms, initialisms, shortened words, and contractions (in most contexts, the technical distinction between acronyms and initialisms isn’t relevant; it’s fine to use the word *acronym* to refer to both).

Reviewer: contractions

> **Long and short versions of a word**

Reviewer: might be better to have these bolded lines as headers

Some words have a long version and a short version. Examples include:

+ application and app
+ demonstration and demo
+ synchronize and sync

> The short versions of the words are not abbreviations, and if you use them, you don't need to put a period after them.

Reviewer: contraction

> If you're not sure whether a word is an abbreviation or just a short version of a longer word, here is a list of [common abbreviations](https://abbreviations.yourdictionary.com/articles/list-of-commonly-used-abbreviations.html). If that doesn't settle the issue, use the speaking test: if you speak the short version as a word ("This is a demo version of the product"), you can usually treat it as a word and not an abbreviation.

Reviewer: contraction

> If a standard term in the Cloudflare UI is the long version of a word, use that over the shorter version to maintain consistency and distinctions. For example, customer *applications* on Cloudflare for Teams are not shortened to *apps*. Depending on the use case, application might be the preferred term, especially due to translation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a standard term in the Cloudflare dashboard is the long version of a word, use that over the shorter version to maintain consistency and distinctions. For example, customer *applications* on Cloudflare for Teams are not shortened to *apps*. Depending on the use case, application might be the preferred term, especially due to translation.
```

**When to spell out a term**

> **In general, when an abbreviation is likely to be unfamiliar to the audience, spell out the first mention of the term and immediately follow with the abbreviation, in parentheses. For all subsequent mentions of the abbreviation, use the abbreviation by itself.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, when an abbreviation is likely to be unfamiliar to the audience, spell out the first mention of the term and immediately follow with the abbreviation, in parentheses. For all subsequent mentions of the abbreviation, use the abbreviation by itself.
```

If the first mention of a term occurs in a heading or title, you can use the abbreviation and then spell out the abbreviation in the first paragraph that follows the heading or title.

> When deciding to spell out a term, consider your audience. If the majority of your audience is likely to recognize and understand the term, then you don't need to spell it out. For example, if you're writing documentation for developers that references an API, you don't need to spell out *application programming interface*. However, if you're explaining the general concept of an API to someone with no programming experience, spelling out the abbreviation can be helpful.

Reviewer: contraction

In some cases, spelling out a term doesn't help the reader understand the term. For example, writing out *portable document* format doesn't help the reader understand what a PDF document is. In those cases, don't spell out the term.

The following abbreviations rarely need to be spelled out:

+ API
+ DVD
+ File formats such as PDF or XML
+ HTML
+ PC
+ RAM
+ REST
+ Units of measure such as MB or GB
+ URL
+ USB

## Abbreviations not to use 

> Prefer English terms over Latin abbreviations. Don't use i.e. or e.g.; instead, use that is or for example, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prefer English terms over Latin abbreviations. Don't use i.e. or e.g.; instead, use **that is** or **for example**, respectively.
```

One exception: avoid both etc. and and so on wherever possible, but if you really need to use one, use etc. Always include the period, even if a comma follows immediately after.

> Don't use internet slang abbreviations such as tl;dr, IMO, FYI, or others. Write out what you mean in a non-figurative way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do not use internet slang abbreviations such as tl;dr, IMO, FYI, or others.
```

Use the most common form of a word. If the full spelled-out word is common and easily understandable, use that rather than abbreviating. For example, write approximately instead of approx. and versus instead of vs.

### Periods with abbreviations

Follow these guidelines:

> + Don't use periods with acronyms or initialisms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ Do not use periods with acronyms or initialisms.
```

+ Put a period at the end of a shortened word, except for date and time abbreviations.
+ If you write or say an abbreviation as a word (for example, app or sync), don't put a period after it.

> + Don't use a period with an abbreviation for the name of a country, US state, or the District of Columbia (DC).

Reviewer: contractions

## i.e. vs e.g.
While similar, these two Latin abbreviations carry very different meanings. 

+ **e.g.** stands for **exempli gratia**.

>     Use this when introducing examples for something you've just mentioned. It's like saying "for example", or "like".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Use this when introducing examples for something you have just mentioned. This is similar to "for example", or "like".
```

    + Cloudflare products (**e.g.**, Zero Trust, Magic Transit, etc.) offer network security and reliability.
+ **i.e.** stands for **id est**.
    Quite literally, it means "that is" (that = id, est = is). It's like saying "in other words".
    + The median compression ratio achieved by Railgun was 0.65% (**i.e.**, the page was reduced to 0.65% of its size).

When you're not sure which one to use, remember this:

+ e.g., can be replaced with "like"
    + Cloudflare products (like Zero Trust and Magic Transit) offer network security and reliability.

>     Yes, it still works! ✅

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    
    Yes, it still works! ✅
```

Reviewer: add a line break to make sure it's not right next to the sentence. otherwise, it ends up being on just one line and looks weird on dev docs site

---
pcx_content_type: Concept
title: Abbreviations
---

## Abbreviations

Abbreviations include acronyms, initialisms, shortened words, and contractions (in most contexts, the technical distinction between acronyms and initialisms isn’t relevant; it’s fine to use the word *acronym* to refer to both).

### Long and short versions of a word

Some words have a long version and a short version. Examples include:

+ application and app
+ demonstration and demo

> + synchronize and sync

Reviewer: this might work better as just a sentence tbh. like...
Some words have a long version and a short version, such as "application" and "app", "demonstration" and "demo", "synchronize" and "sync".

### Periods with abbreviations

Follow these guidelines:

+ Do not use periods with acronyms or initialisms.
+ Put a period at the end of a shortened word, except for date and time abbreviations.
+ If you write or say an abbreviation as a word (for example, app or sync), do not put a period after it.
+ Do not use a period with an abbreviation for the name of a country, US state, or the District of Columbia (DC).

## i.e. vs e.g.
While similar, these two Latin abbreviations carry very different meanings. 

+ **e.g.** stands for **exempli gratia**.
    Use this when introducing examples for something you have just mentioned. This is similar to "for example", or "like".
    + Cloudflare products (**e.g.**, Zero Trust, Magic Transit, etc.) offer network security and reliability.
+ **i.e.** stands for **id est**.
    Quite literally, it means "that is" (that = id, est = is). It is like saying "in other words".
    + The median compression ratio achieved by Railgun was 0.65% (**i.e.**, the page was reduced to 0.65% of its size).

> When you are not sure which one to use, remember this:

Reviewer: this entire section is a little difficult to read. can you reformat it?

Author: Yeah I'm looking at it now and it needs work. I think that entire section can be cut and the section prior can be amended to reflect these ideas. i.e. vs e.g. starts with "here are the rules" and the next section is "don't forget these rules:"
